src/docs/reference/support-policy.md, before:

---
title: Support Policy
description: Support Policy
url: /docs/support-policy
contributors:
- rwaskiewicz
---

# Support Policy

## Community Maintenance

The Stencil is a 100% open source (MIT) project. Developers can ensure Stencil is the right choice for building web 
components through Ionic’s community maintenance strategy. The Stencil team regularly ships new releases, bug fixes, and 
is welcoming to community pull requests.

### Where can I get support?

If this is your first time building a design system, or you’re new to Stencil, [get in touch](https://ionicframework.com/sales?product_of_interest=Design%20Systems) with one of our Solutions Engineers for a consultation on how to meet your goals and get the most out of the platform.

### What versions of Stencil are currently supported?

Currently, Stencil is on version 2.

Stencil follows [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), meaning that the team at Ionic strives to avoid any type of breaking change to Stencil without changing the 'major version number' of the library. Therefore, versions 2.7.0 and 2.8.0 are designed to be backwards compatible with one another. However, there may be breaking changes between v2.7.0 and v3.0.0. Breaking changes to the library can be found [here](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/master/BREAKING_CHANGES.md).

To determine the version of Stencil your project has installed, run:
```shell
npm ls @stencil/core
```

To view the latest version of Stencil, please see the project's [releases page](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/releases).

> At this time, versions 0 and 1 of Stencil are not actively supported.

Commit message:

first pass at the policy

src/docs/reference/support-policy.md, after:

---
title: Support Policy
description: Support Policy
url: /docs/support-policy
contributors:
- rwaskiewicz
---

# Support Policy

## Community Maintenance

The Stencil is a 100% open source (MIT) project. Developers can ensure Stencil is the right choice for building web 
components through Ionic’s community maintenance strategy. The Stencil team regularly ships new releases, bug fixes, and 
is welcoming to community pull requests.

## Stencil Maintenance and Support Status

Given the reality of time and resource restraints as well as the desire to keep innovating in the frontend development
space, over time it becomes necessary for the Stencil team to shift focus to newer versions of the library. However,
the Stencil team will do everything it can to make the transition to newer versions as smooth as possible. The Stencil
team recommends updating to the newest version of the Stencil for the latest features, improvements and stability 
updates.

The current status of each Stencil version is:

| Version |     Status     |   Released   | Maintenance Ends | Ext. Support Ends |
|:-------:|:--------------:|:------------:| :--------------: |:-----------------:|
|   V3    |  **Upcoming**  |     TBD      |       TBD        |        TBD        |
|   V2    |   **Active**   | Aug 08, 2020 |       TBD        |        TBD        |
|   V1    | End of Support | Jun 03, 2019 |   Aug 08, 2020   |    Aug 08, 2020   |

**Maintenance Period**: Only critical bug and security fixes. No major feature improvements.
**Extended Support Period**: For teams and organizations that require additional long term support, Ionic has extended 
support options available. To learn more, see our 
[Enterprise offerings](https://ionicframework.com/sales?product_of_interest=Design%20Systems).

Starting with Stencil v2, the Stencil team is adopting a revised maintenance policy.

When a new major version of Stencil is released, the previous major version release will enter maintenance mode. While
during the maintenance period, only critical bug and security fixes will be applied, with no major feature improvements.
The maintenance period shall last three months. Once the maintenance period has ended for version of Stencil, that 
version enters the extended support period. During the extended support period, only critical bug and security fixes
will be applied for teams and organizations using Stencil's Enterprise offerings. The extended support period lasts
for X months.

| Version |        Status         |   Released   | Maintenance Ends | Ext. Support Ends |
|:-------:|:---------------------:|:------------:| :--------------: |:-----------------:|
|    D    |        Active         |     TBD      |       TBD        |        TBD        |
|    C    |      Maintenance      |     TBD      |       TBD        |        TBD        |
|    B    | Extended Support Only | Aug 08, 2020 |       TBD        |        TBD        |
|    A    |    End of Support     | Jun 03, 2019 |   Aug 08, 2020   |    Aug 08, 2020   |
