src/docs/components/reactive-data.md, before:

---
title: Reactive Data, Handling arrays and objects
description: Reactive Data, Handling arrays and objects
url: /docs/reactive-data
contributors:
  - jthoms1
---

# Reactive Data: Handling arrays and objects

Stencil components update when props or state on a component change. For performance and simplicity, Stencil only compares references for changes, and will not re-render when data inside of an array or object changes.

To update array or object data, use the following techniques which are fast-becoming a core part of the modern JavaScript  toolbox.

## Updating arrays

For arrays, this means that the standard mutable array operations such as `push()` and `unshift()` won't work. Instead, non-mutable array operators such as `map()` and `filter()`, and the ES6 spread operator syntax, should be used as they return a copy of a new array.

For example, to push a new item to an array, create a new array with the existing values and the new value at the end:

```tsx
// our original array
this.items = ['ionic', 'stencil', 'webcomponents'];

// update the array
this.items = [
  ...this.items,
  'awesomeness'
]
```

The `...this.items` syntax is a relatively new feature of JavaScript that "expands" the given object in place. Read more about the Spread operator [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_operator).

## Updating an object

The spread operator should also be used to update objects. As with arrays, mutating an object will not trigger a view update in Stencil, but returning a new copy of the object will. Below is an example:

```tsx
// our original object
let myCoolObject = {first: '1', second: '2'}

// update our object
myCoolObject = { ...myCoolObject, third: '3' }

```

Commit message:

docs(all): add docs + component restructure

src/docs/components/reactive-data.md, after:

---
title: Reactive Data, Handling arrays and objects
description: Reactive Data, Handling arrays and objects
url: /docs/reactive-data
contributors:
  - jthoms1
---

# Reactive Data

Stencil components update when props or state on a component change. For performance and simplicity, Stencil only compares references for changes, and will not re-render when data inside of an array or object changes.


## Rendering methods

When a component updates because a state change (props or state change), the [`render()`](templating-jsx) and [`hostData()`](host-element) methods are scheduled to run.


## Watch Decorator

When a user updates a property, `Watch` will fire what ever method it's attached to and pass that method the new value of the prop along with the old value. `Watch` is useful for validating props or handling side effects.


```tsx
import { Prop, Watch } from '@stencil/core';

export class LoadingIndicator {
  @Prop() activated: boolean;

+ @Watch('activated')
  watchHandler(newValue: boolean, oldValue: boolean) {
    console.log('The new value of activated is: ', newValue);
  }
}
```


## Handling arrays and objects

To update array or object data, use the following techniques which are fast-becoming a core part of the modern JavaScript  toolbox.

### Updating arrays

For arrays, this means that the standard mutable array operations such as `push()` and `unshift()` won't work. Instead, non-mutable array operators such as `map()` and `filter()`, and the ES6 spread operator syntax, should be used as they return a copy of a new array.

For example, to push a new item to an array, create a new array with the existing values and the new value at the end:

```tsx
// our original array
this.items = ['ionic', 'stencil', 'webcomponents'];

// update the array
this.items = [
  ...this.items,
  'awesomeness'
]
```

The `...this.items` syntax is a relatively new feature of JavaScript that "expands" the given object in place. Read more about the Spread operator [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_operator).

### Updating an object

The spread operator should also be used to update objects. As with arrays, mutating an object will not trigger a view update in Stencil, but returning a new copy of the object will. Below is an example:

```tsx
// our original object
let myCoolObject = {first: '1', second: '2'}

// update our object
myCoolObject = { ...myCoolObject, third: '3' }
```
