versioned_docs/version-v3.0/introduction/03-getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: Getting Started
slug: /getting-started
contributors:
  - jthoms1
  - rwaskiewicz
---

# Getting Started

## Starting a New Project

### Prerequisites
Stencil requires a recent LTS version of [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) and npm/yarn.
Make sure you've installed and/or updated Node before continuing.

### Running the `create-stencil` CLI
The `create-stencil` CLI can be used to scaffold a new Stencil project, and can be run using the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
 npm init stencil
```

Stencil can be used to create standalone components, or entire apps.
`create-stencil`, will provide a prompt so that you can choose the type of project to start:

```text
? Select a starter project.

Starters marked as [community] are developed by the Stencil
Community, rather than Ionic. For more information on the 
Stencil Community, please see github.com/stencil-community

❯   component                Collection of web components that can be
                             used anywhere
    app [community]          Minimal starter for building a Stencil 
                             app or website
    ionic-pwa [community]    Ionic PWA starter with tabs layout and routes
```

Selecting the 'component' option will prompt you for the name of your project.
Here, we'll name our project 'my-first-stencil-project':

```bash
✔ Pick a starter › component
? Project name › my-first-stencil-project
```

After hitting `ENTER` to confirm your choices, the CLI will scaffold a Stencil project for us in a directory that matches the provided project name.
Upon successfully creating our project, the CLI will print something similar to the following to the console:

```bash
✔ Project name › my-first-stencil-project
✔ All setup  in 26 ms

  We suggest that you begin by typing:

  $ cd my-first-stencil-project
  $ npm install
  $ npm start

  $ npm start
    Starts the development server.

  $ npm run build
    Builds your project in production mode.

  $ npm test
    Starts the test runner.

  Further reading:

   - https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil-component-starter

  Happy coding! 🎈
```

The first section describes a few commands required to finish getting your project bootstrapped.

```bash
    $ cd my-first-stencil-project
    $ npm install
    $ npm start
```

This will change your current directory to `my-first-stencil-project`, install your dependencies for you, and start the development server.

### Useful Initial Commands

The second section of the `create-stencil` output describes a few useful commands available during the development process:

- `npm start` starts a local development server. The development server will open a new browser tab containing your
  project's components. The dev-server uses hot-module reloading to update your components in the browser as you modify
  them for a rapid feedback cycle.

- `npm run build` creates a production-ready version of your components. The components generated in this step are not
  meant to be used in the local development server, but rather within a project that consumes your components.

- `npm test` runs your project's tests. The `create-stencil` CLI has created both end-to-end and unit tests when scaffolding your project.

At this time, Stencil does not interact with any version control systems (VCS) when running the `create-stencil` CLI.
If you wish to place your project under version control, we recommend initializing your VCS now.
If you wish to use git, run the following after changing your current directory to the root of your Stencil project:

```bash
$ git init
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "initialize project using stencil cli" 
```

## My First Component

Stencil components are created by adding a new file with a `.tsx` extension, such as `my-component.tsx`.
The `.tsx` extension is required since Stencil components are built using [JSX](../components/templating-and-jsx.md) and TypeScript.

When we ran `create-stencil` above, it generated a component, `my-component.tsx`, that can be found in the `src/components/my-component` directory:

```tsx title="my-component.tsx"
import { Component, Prop, h } from '@stencil/core';
import { format } from '../../utils/utils';

@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
  styleUrl: 'my-component.css',
  shadow: true,
})
export class MyComponent {
  @Prop() first: string;
  @Prop() middle: string;
  @Prop() last: string;

  private getText(): string {
    return format(this.first, this.middle, this.last);
  }

  render() {
    return <div>Hello, World! I'm {this.getText()}</div>;
  }
}
```

Once compiled, this component can be used in HTML just like any other tag.

```markup
<my-component first="Stencil" middle="'Don't call me a framework'" last="JS"></my-component>
```

When rendered, the browser will display `Hello World! I'm Stencil 'Don't call me a framework' JS`.

### Anatomy of `my-component`

Let's dive in and describe what's happening in `my-component`, line-by-line.

After the import statements, the first piece we see is the [`@Component` decorator](../components/component.md):
```tsx
@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
  styleUrl: 'my-component.css',
  shadow: true,
})
```
This decorator provides metadata about our component to the Stencil compiler.
Information, such as the custom element name (`tag`) to use, can be set here.
This decorator tells Stencil to:
- Set the [element's name](../components/component.md#tag) to 'my-component'
- [Apply the stylesheet](../components/component.md#styleurl) 'my-component.css' to the component
- Enable [native Shadow DOM functionality](../components/component.md#shadow) for this component

Below the `@Component()` decorator, we have a standard JavaScript class declaration:

```tsx
export class MyComponent {
```

Within this class is where you'll write the bulk of your code to bring your Stencil component to life.

Next, the component contains three class members, `first`, `middle` and `last`.
Each of these class members have the [`@Prop()` decorator](../components/properties.md#the-prop-decorator-prop) applied to them:
```ts
  @Prop() first: string;
  @Prop() middle: string;
  @Prop() last: string;
```
`@Prop()` tells Stencil that the property is public to the component, and allows Stencil to rerender when any of these public properties change.
We'll see how this works after discussing the `render()` function.

In order for the component to render something to the screen, we must declare a [`render()` function](../components/templating-and-jsx.md#basics) that returns JSX.
If you're not sure what JSX is, be sure to reference the [Using JSX](../components/templating-and-jsx.md) docs.

The quick idea is that our render function needs to return a representation of the HTML we want to push to the DOM.

```tsx
  private getText(): string {
    return format(this.first, this.middle, this.last);
  }
  
  render() {
    return <div>Hello, World! I'm {this.getText()}</div>;
  }
```

This component's `render()` returns a `<div>` element, containing text to render to the screen.

The `render()` function uses all three class members decorated with `@Prop()`, through the `getText` function.
Declaring private functions like `getText` helps pull logic out of the `render()` function's JSX.

Any property decorated with `@Prop()` is also automatically watched for changes.
If a user of our component were to change the element's `first`, `middle`, or `last` properties, our component would fire its `render()` function again, updating the displayed content.

## Component Generator

The `create-stencil` CLI can generate new components for you.
If you used one of the starters, you can simply run the `generate` npm script in your project, which will start the interactive generator.

```shell npm2yarn
npm run generate
```

Or, you can invoke the Stencil CLI directly with the `generate` command (`g` for short).
If you don't have `stencil` installed globally, prefix the command with `npx`.

```shell
stencil generate
# or
stencil g
```

You can optionally pass the component tag name directly to the command.
The component tag name needs to be lowercase and contain at least one dash ('-').

```sh npm2yarn
stencil generate my-new-component
```

The generator will ask you which files to generate.
This allows you to bootstrap a stylesheet as well as spec and e2e tests along with the component file.

All components will be generated within the `src/components` folder.
Within that directory, a folder will be created with the same name as the component tag name you provided, and within that folder the files will be generated.
It is also possible to specify one or multiple sub-folders to generate the component in.

For example, if you specify `pages/page-home` as the component tag name, the files will be generated in `src/components/pages/page-home`.

```shell
stencil generate pages/page-home
```

```plain
src
└── components
    └── pages
        └── page-home
            ├── page-home.css
            ├── page-home.e2e.ts
            ├── page-home.spec.ts
            └── page-home.tsx
```


## Updating Stencil

To get the latest version of @stencil/core you can run:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @stencil/core@latest --save-exact
```

Commit message:

docs(getting-started): make global install explicit
this commit updates the getting started documentation to clearly state
that `npx` will fetch the package for you, in an attempt to make it
clear how stencil can be install globally

versioned_docs/version-v3.0/introduction/03-getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: Getting Started
slug: /getting-started
contributors:
  - jthoms1
  - rwaskiewicz
---

# Getting Started

## Starting a New Project

### Prerequisites
Stencil requires a recent LTS version of [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) and npm/yarn.
Make sure you've installed and/or updated Node before continuing.

### Running the `create-stencil` CLI
The `create-stencil` CLI can be used to scaffold a new Stencil project, and can be run using the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
 npm init stencil
```

Stencil can be used to create standalone components, or entire apps.
`create-stencil`, will provide a prompt so that you can choose the type of project to start:

```text
? Select a starter project.

Starters marked as [community] are developed by the Stencil
Community, rather than Ionic. For more information on the 
Stencil Community, please see github.com/stencil-community

❯   component                Collection of web components that can be
                             used anywhere
    app [community]          Minimal starter for building a Stencil 
                             app or website
    ionic-pwa [community]    Ionic PWA starter with tabs layout and routes
```

Selecting the 'component' option will prompt you for the name of your project.
Here, we'll name our project 'my-first-stencil-project':

```bash
✔ Pick a starter › component
? Project name › my-first-stencil-project
```

After hitting `ENTER` to confirm your choices, the CLI will scaffold a Stencil project for us in a directory that matches the provided project name.
Upon successfully creating our project, the CLI will print something similar to the following to the console:

```bash
✔ Project name › my-first-stencil-project
✔ All setup  in 26 ms

  We suggest that you begin by typing:

  $ cd my-first-stencil-project
  $ npm install
  $ npm start

  $ npm start
    Starts the development server.

  $ npm run build
    Builds your project in production mode.

  $ npm test
    Starts the test runner.

  Further reading:

   - https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil-component-starter

  Happy coding! 🎈
```

The first section describes a few commands required to finish getting your project bootstrapped.

```bash
    $ cd my-first-stencil-project
    $ npm install
    $ npm start
```

This will change your current directory to `my-first-stencil-project`, install your dependencies for you, and start the development server.

### Useful Initial Commands

The second section of the `create-stencil` output describes a few useful commands available during the development process:

- `npm start` starts a local development server. The development server will open a new browser tab containing your
  project's components. The dev-server uses hot-module reloading to update your components in the browser as you modify
  them for a rapid feedback cycle.

- `npm run build` creates a production-ready version of your components. The components generated in this step are not
  meant to be used in the local development server, but rather within a project that consumes your components.

- `npm test` runs your project's tests. The `create-stencil` CLI has created both end-to-end and unit tests when scaffolding your project.

At this time, Stencil does not interact with any version control systems (VCS) when running the `create-stencil` CLI.
If you wish to place your project under version control, we recommend initializing your VCS now.
If you wish to use git, run the following after changing your current directory to the root of your Stencil project:

```bash
$ git init
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "initialize project using stencil cli" 
```

## My First Component

Stencil components are created by adding a new file with a `.tsx` extension, such as `my-component.tsx`.
The `.tsx` extension is required since Stencil components are built using [JSX](../components/templating-and-jsx.md) and TypeScript.

When we ran `create-stencil` above, it generated a component, `my-component.tsx`, that can be found in the `src/components/my-component` directory:

```tsx title="my-component.tsx"
import { Component, Prop, h } from '@stencil/core';
import { format } from '../../utils/utils';

@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
  styleUrl: 'my-component.css',
  shadow: true,
})
export class MyComponent {
  @Prop() first: string;
  @Prop() middle: string;
  @Prop() last: string;

  private getText(): string {
    return format(this.first, this.middle, this.last);
  }

  render() {
    return <div>Hello, World! I'm {this.getText()}</div>;
  }
}
```

Once compiled, this component can be used in HTML just like any other tag.

```markup
<my-component first="Stencil" middle="'Don't call me a framework'" last="JS"></my-component>
```

When rendered, the browser will display `Hello World! I'm Stencil 'Don't call me a framework' JS`.

### Anatomy of `my-component`

Let's dive in and describe what's happening in `my-component`, line-by-line.

After the import statements, the first piece we see is the [`@Component` decorator](../components/component.md):
```tsx
@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
  styleUrl: 'my-component.css',
  shadow: true,
})
```
This decorator provides metadata about our component to the Stencil compiler.
Information, such as the custom element name (`tag`) to use, can be set here.
This decorator tells Stencil to:
- Set the [element's name](../components/component.md#tag) to 'my-component'
- [Apply the stylesheet](../components/component.md#styleurl) 'my-component.css' to the component
- Enable [native Shadow DOM functionality](../components/component.md#shadow) for this component

Below the `@Component()` decorator, we have a standard JavaScript class declaration:

```tsx
export class MyComponent {
```

Within this class is where you'll write the bulk of your code to bring your Stencil component to life.

Next, the component contains three class members, `first`, `middle` and `last`.
Each of these class members have the [`@Prop()` decorator](../components/properties.md#the-prop-decorator-prop) applied to them:
```ts
  @Prop() first: string;
  @Prop() middle: string;
  @Prop() last: string;
```
`@Prop()` tells Stencil that the property is public to the component, and allows Stencil to rerender when any of these public properties change.
We'll see how this works after discussing the `render()` function.

In order for the component to render something to the screen, we must declare a [`render()` function](../components/templating-and-jsx.md#basics) that returns JSX.
If you're not sure what JSX is, be sure to reference the [Using JSX](../components/templating-and-jsx.md) docs.

The quick idea is that our render function needs to return a representation of the HTML we want to push to the DOM.

```tsx
  private getText(): string {
    return format(this.first, this.middle, this.last);
  }
  
  render() {
    return <div>Hello, World! I'm {this.getText()}</div>;
  }
```

This component's `render()` returns a `<div>` element, containing text to render to the screen.

The `render()` function uses all three class members decorated with `@Prop()`, through the `getText` function.
Declaring private functions like `getText` helps pull logic out of the `render()` function's JSX.

Any property decorated with `@Prop()` is also automatically watched for changes.
If a user of our component were to change the element's `first`, `middle`, or `last` properties, our component would fire its `render()` function again, updating the displayed content.

## Component Generator

The `create-stencil` CLI can generate new components for you.
If you used one of the starters, you can simply run the `generate` npm script in your project, which will start the interactive generator.

```shell npm2yarn
npm run generate
```

Alternatively, you can invoke the Stencil CLI directly with the `generate` command (`g` for short).

```shell
stencil generate
# or
stencil g
```

If you don't have `stencil` installed globally, prefix the command with [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npx).
Running a command prefixed with `npx` will fetch the package for you automatically and prompt you to install it.

You can optionally pass the component tag name directly to the command.
The component tag name needs to be lowercase and contain at least one dash ('-').

```sh npm2yarn
stencil generate my-new-component
```

The generator will ask you which files to generate.
This allows you to bootstrap a stylesheet as well as spec and e2e tests along with the component file.

All components will be generated within the `src/components` folder.
Within that directory, a folder will be created with the same name as the component tag name you provided, and within that folder the files will be generated.
It is also possible to specify one or multiple sub-folders to generate the component in.

For example, if you specify `pages/page-home` as the component tag name, the files will be generated in `src/components/pages/page-home`.

```shell
stencil generate pages/page-home
```

```plain
src
└── components
    └── pages
        └── page-home
            ├── page-home.css
            ├── page-home.e2e.ts
            ├── page-home.spec.ts
            └── page-home.tsx
```


## Updating Stencil

To get the latest version of @stencil/core you can run:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @stencil/core@latest --save-exact
```
