# Stencil Config

The `stencil.config.js` file is where all Stencil configuration happens.

Here's an example configuration:

```js
exports.config = {
  bundles: [
    { components: ['stencil-site', 'site-header', 'landing-page'] },
    { components: ['getting-started', 'code-splitting', 'stencil-ssr', 'site-menu'] },
    { components: ['demos-page'] }
  ],
  collections: [
    { name: '@stencil/router' }
  ],
  serviceWorker: {
    globPatterns: [
      '**/*.{js,css,json,html,ico,png,jpeg}'
    ],
    globIgnores: [
      'build/app/svg/*.js'
    ]
  },
  copy: [
    { src: 'images' },
    { src: 'styles', dest: 'css' }
  ]
};
```

### Config entries

- `bundles`

The `bundles` config is an array of objects that represent how components are grouped together in lazy-loaded bundles. It is important to note that every Stencil component be included in a bundle. In the example above, each object in the `bundles` array has its own `components` array, which is the HTML tag name for each component. In general, the simplest approach is to give each component its own bundle. A more advanced optimization would be grouping commonly used components together.

- `collections`

The `collections` config specifies a list of third-party Stencil libraries. Since everything in Stencil is async and lazy loaded by default, it is important to NOT have any hard `import` statements linking components together. Any library listed in the list `collections` entry will be recognized and included in the application by the Stencil compiler. By default, the `@stencil/router` will be included.

- `srcDir`,  default value: `src`

The `srcDir` config specifies the source directory.

- `wwwDir`,  default value: `www`

The `wwwDir` config specifies the public web distribution directory. This directory is commonly the root directory for a server, where all static files can be served. This directory is built and rebuilt directly from the source files. We recommend this directory is not committed to a repository.

- `buildDir`,  default value: `build`

The `buildDir` config specifies where stencil's build files are saved after each build. These are the generated scripts which will be requested by the browser. The build direcory should be relative to the `wwwDir` setting.

- `publicPath`, default value: `/build`

The `publicPath` config sets the client-side base path for all Stencil build assets, and it's usually best to have it start with `/`. Note that this only sets the base path the browser requests, but this does not set where files are saved during build. To change where files are saved at build time, use the `buildDir` config.

- `serviceWorker`

The `serviceWorker` config lets you customize the service worker that gets automatically generated by the Stencil compiler. You can
set any of the values listed [here in the Workbox documentation](https://workboxjs.org/reference-docs/latest/module-workbox-build.html#.Configuration), to override our default service worker settings.

-  `copy`

The `copy` config is an array of objects that define any files or folders that you would like to
get copied over to your `buildDir` when a build is performed. Each object in the array must include a `src` property which can be either an `absolute path`, a `relative path` or a `glob pattern`. You can also provide the optional `dest` property which can be either an `absolute path` or a path `relative` to your `buildDir`.

<stencil-route-link url="/docs/testing" router="#router" custom="true">
  <button class="backButton">
    Back
  </button>
</stencil-route-link>

<stencil-route-link url="/docs/prerendering" custom="true">
  <button class="nextButton">
    Next
  </button>
</stencil-route-link>