versioned_docs/version-v4.13.0/output-targets/dist.md, before:

---
title: Distributing Web Components Built with Stencil
sidebar_label: dist
description: Distributing Web Components Built with Stencil
slug: /distribution
---

# Distribution Output Target

The `dist` type is to generate the component(s) as a reusable library that can be self-lazy loading, such as [Ionic](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ionic/core). When creating a distribution, the project's `package.json` will also have to be updated. However, the generated bundle is tree-shakable, ensuring that only imported components will end up in the build.

```tsx
outputTargets: [
  {
    type: 'dist'
  }
]
```

## Config

### collectionDir

The `collectionDir` config specifies the output directory within the [distribution directory](#dir) where the transpiled output of Stencil components will be written.

This option defaults to `collection` when omitted from a Stencil configuration file.

### dir

The `dir` config specifies the public distribution directory. This directory is commonly the `dist` directory found within [npm packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/packages). This directory is built and rebuilt directly from the source files. Additionally, since this is a build target, all files will be deleted and rebuilt after each build, so it's best to always copy source files into this directory. It's recommended that this directory not be committed to a repository.

This option defaults to `dist` when omitted from a Stencil configuration file.

### empty

By default, before each build the `dir` directory will be emptied of all files. To prevent this directory from being emptied, change this value to `false`.

This flag defaults to `true` when omitted from a Stencil configuration file.

### isPrimaryPackageOutputTarget

_default: `false`_

If `true`, this output target will be used to validate `package.json` fields for your project's distribution. See the overview of [primary package output target validation](./01-overview.md#primary-package-output-target-validation)
for more information.

### transformAliasedImportPathsInCollection

*default: `true`*

This option will allow [path aliases](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/module-resolution.html#path-mapping) defined in a project's `tsconfig.json` to be transformed into relative paths in the code output under the [collectionDir](#collectiondir) subdirectory for this output target. This does not affect imports for external packages.

An example of path transformation could look something like:

```ts
// Source code
import * as utils from '@utils';

// Output code
import * as utils from '../path/to/utils';
```

:::tip
If using the `dist-collection` output target directly, the same result can be achieved using the [`transformAliasedImportPaths`](../output-targets/dist.md#transformaliasedimportpathsincollection) flag on the target's config.
:::

### esmLoaderPath

*default: `/dist/loader`*

Provide a custom path for the ESM loader directory, containing files you can import in an initiation script within your application to register all your components for lazy loading. Read more about the loader directory in the [section below](#loader).

If you don't use a custom [exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) map, users would have to import the loader script via:

```js
import { defineCustomElements } from 'stencil-library/dist/loader'
```

By setting `esmLoaderPath` to e.g. `../loader` you can shorten or rename the import path to:

```js
import { defineCustomElements } from 'stencil-library/loader'
```

## Publishing

Next you can publish your library to [Node Package Manager (NPM)](https://www.npmjs.com/). For more information about setting up the `package.json` file, and publishing, see: [Publishing A Component Library](../guides/publishing.md).

## Loader

The `dist` output target generates a loader directory that exports `setNonce`, `applyPolyfills` and `defineCustomElements` helper functions when imported within an ESM context. This allows you to register all components of your library to be used in your project in an application setup script, e.g.:

```ts
import { applyPolyfills, defineCustomElements, setNonce } from 'stencil-library/loader';

// Will set the `nonce` attribute for all scripts/style tags
// i.e. will run styleTag.setAttribute('nonce', 'r4nd0m')
// Obviously, you should use the nonce generated by your server
setNonce('r4nd0m');

applyPolyfills().then(() => {
  defineCustomElements();
});
```

This is an alternative approach to e.g. loading the components directly through a script tag as mentioned below. Read more about `setNonce` and when to set it in our guide on [Content Security Policy Nonces](../guides/csp-nonce.md).

Commit message:

docs(dist): clarify `dist` output target (#1379)
we're a little misleading here with respect to how `dist` works. adding a new sentence to clarify this better.

Impetus: https://discord.com/channels/520266681499779082/1143895925325058121/1219625948647919659

versioned_docs/version-v4.13.0/output-targets/dist.md, after:

---
title: Distributing Web Components Built with Stencil
sidebar_label: dist
description: Distributing Web Components Built with Stencil
slug: /distribution
---

# Distribution Output Target

The `dist` type is to generate the component(s) as a reusable library that can be self-lazy loading, such as [Ionic](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ionic/core). The `dist` output will bundle all components into your application and only load the ones it needs at runtime.  When creating a distribution, the project's `package.json` will also have to be updated. 

```tsx
outputTargets: [
  {
    type: 'dist'
  }
]
```

## Config

### collectionDir

The `collectionDir` config specifies the output directory within the [distribution directory](#dir) where the transpiled output of Stencil components will be written.

This option defaults to `collection` when omitted from a Stencil configuration file.

### dir

The `dir` config specifies the public distribution directory. This directory is commonly the `dist` directory found within [npm packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/packages). This directory is built and rebuilt directly from the source files. Additionally, since this is a build target, all files will be deleted and rebuilt after each build, so it's best to always copy source files into this directory. It's recommended that this directory not be committed to a repository.

This option defaults to `dist` when omitted from a Stencil configuration file.

### empty

By default, before each build the `dir` directory will be emptied of all files. To prevent this directory from being emptied, change this value to `false`.

This flag defaults to `true` when omitted from a Stencil configuration file.

### isPrimaryPackageOutputTarget

_default: `false`_

If `true`, this output target will be used to validate `package.json` fields for your project's distribution. See the overview of [primary package output target validation](./01-overview.md#primary-package-output-target-validation)
for more information.

### transformAliasedImportPathsInCollection

*default: `true`*

This option will allow [path aliases](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/module-resolution.html#path-mapping) defined in a project's `tsconfig.json` to be transformed into relative paths in the code output under the [collectionDir](#collectiondir) subdirectory for this output target. This does not affect imports for external packages.

An example of path transformation could look something like:

```ts
// Source code
import * as utils from '@utils';

// Output code
import * as utils from '../path/to/utils';
```

:::tip
If using the `dist-collection` output target directly, the same result can be achieved using the [`transformAliasedImportPaths`](../output-targets/dist.md#transformaliasedimportpathsincollection) flag on the target's config.
:::

### esmLoaderPath

*default: `/dist/loader`*

Provide a custom path for the ESM loader directory, containing files you can import in an initiation script within your application to register all your components for lazy loading. Read more about the loader directory in the [section below](#loader).

If you don't use a custom [exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) map, users would have to import the loader script via:

```js
import { defineCustomElements } from 'stencil-library/dist/loader'
```

By setting `esmLoaderPath` to e.g. `../loader` you can shorten or rename the import path to:

```js
import { defineCustomElements } from 'stencil-library/loader'
```

## Publishing

Next you can publish your library to [Node Package Manager (NPM)](https://www.npmjs.com/). For more information about setting up the `package.json` file, and publishing, see: [Publishing A Component Library](../guides/publishing.md).

## Loader

The `dist` output target generates a loader directory that exports `setNonce`, `applyPolyfills` and `defineCustomElements` helper functions when imported within an ESM context. This allows you to register all components of your library to be used in your project in an application setup script, e.g.:

```ts
import { applyPolyfills, defineCustomElements, setNonce } from 'stencil-library/loader';

// Will set the `nonce` attribute for all scripts/style tags
// i.e. will run styleTag.setAttribute('nonce', 'r4nd0m')
// Obviously, you should use the nonce generated by your server
setNonce('r4nd0m');

applyPolyfills().then(() => {
  defineCustomElements();
});
```

This is an alternative approach to e.g. loading the components directly through a script tag as mentioned below. Read more about `setNonce` and when to set it in our guide on [Content Security Policy Nonces](../guides/csp-nonce.md).
