src/docs/introduction/upgrading-to-stencil-three.md, before:

---
title: Upgrading to Stencil v3.0.0
description: Upgrading to Stencil v3.0.0
url: /docs/upgrading-to-stencil-3
contributors:
  - rwaskiewicz
---

# Upgrading to Stencil v3.0.0

> Stencil 3.0.0 is still in alpha. These instructions are for users looking to try an early version of the software

## Getting Started

It's recommended that your projects start their upgrade from Stencil v2.
Projects using Stencil v0 or Stencil v1 should upgrade to Stencil v2 before proceeding with this guide.
For breaking changes introduced in previous major versions of the library, see:
- [Stencil v2 Breaking Changes](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/main/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#stencil-two)
- [Stencil v1 Breaking Changes](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/main/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#stencil-one)

For projects that are on Stencil v2, install the latest version of Stencil v3:
```bash
npm install @stencil/core@v3-next
```

## Updating Your Code

### New Configuration Defaults
Starting with Stencil v3.0.0, the default configuration values have changed for a few properties.

#### SourceMaps
Sourcemaps are generated by default for all builds.
Previously, sourcemaps had to be explicitly enabled by setting the `sourceMap` flag to `true`.
To restore the old behavior, set the `sourceMap` flag to `false` in your project's `stencil.config.ts`:
```ts
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  sourceMap: false,
  // ...
};
```

#### `dist-custom-elements` Type Declarations
Type declaration files (`.d.ts` files) are now generated by default for the [`dist-custom-elements` output target](/docs/custom-elements).
If your project is using `dist-custom-elements` and you do not wish to generate type declarations, the old behavior can be achieved by setting `generateTypeDeclarations` to `false` in the `dist-custom-elements` output target in your project's `stencil.config.ts`:
```ts
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
    {
      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
      generateTypeDeclarations: false,
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```

### Deprecated `assetsDir` Removed from `@Component()` decorator
The `assetsDir` field was [deprecated in Stencil v2.0.0](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/main/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#componentassetsdir), but some backwards compatibility was retained with a warning message.
It has been fully removed in Stencil v3.0.0 in favor of `assetsDirs`.
To migrate from existing usages of `assetsDir`, update the property name and wrap its value in an array:
```diff
@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
- assetsDir: 'assets',
+ assetsDirs: ['assets'],
})
```
For more information on the `assetsDirs` field, please see the [Stencil Documentation on `assetsDirs`](/docs/assets#assetsdirs)

### Drop Node 12 Support
Stencil no longer supports Node 12.
Please upgrade local development machines, continuous integration pipelines, etc. to use Node v14 or higher.

### Strongly Typed Inputs
`onInput` and `onInputCapture` events have had their interface's updated to accept an argument of `InputEvent` over `Event`:
```diff
- onInput?: (event: Event) => void;
+ onInput?: (event: InputEvent) => void;
- onInputCapture?: (event: Event) => void;
+ onInputCapture?: (event: InputEvent) => void;
```
`event` arguments to either callback should be updated to take this narrower typing into account

### Narrowed Typing for `autocapitalize` Attribute
The [`autocaptialize` attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/autocapitalize) has been narrowed from type `any` to type `string`.
This change brings Stencil into closer alignment with TypeScript's typings for the attribute.
No explicit changes are needed, unless a project was passing non-strings to the attribute.

### Custom Types for Props and Events are now Exported from `components.d.ts`

Custom types for props and custom events are now re-exported from a project's `components.d.ts` file.

For the following Stencil component
```tsx
import { Component, Event, EventEmitter, Prop, h } from '@stencil/core';

export type NameType = string;
export type Todo = Event;

@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
  styleUrl: 'my-component.css',
  shadow: true,
})
export class MyComponent {
  @Prop() first: NameType;

  @Event() todoCompleted: EventEmitter<Todo>

  render() {
    return <div>Hello, World! I'm {this.first}</div>;
  }
}
```

The following data will now be included automatically in `components.d.ts`:
```diff
  import { HTMLStencilElement, JSXBase } from "@stencil/core/internal";
  import { NameType, Todo } from "./components/my-component/my-component";
+ export { NameType, Todo } from "./components/my-component/my-component";
  export namespace Components {
      interface MyComponent {
        "first": NameType;
      }
  }
  export interface MyComponentCustomEvent<T> extends CustomEvent<T> {
      detail: T;
      target: HTMLMyComponentElement;
  }
  declare global {
      interface HTMLMyComponentElement extends Components.MyComponent, HTMLStencilElement {
  }
```
This allows those types to be easily accessed from the root of the type distribution:
```ts
import { NameType, Todo } from '@my-lib/types';
```

When using `dist-custom-elements`, these types can now be accessed from the custom element output:
```ts
import { NameType, Todo } from '@my-custom-elements-output';
```

This _may_ clash with any manually created types in existing Stencil projects.
Projects that manually create type definitions from `components.d.ts` will either need to:
- remove the manually created type (if the types generated in `components.d.ts` suffice)
- update their type creation logic to account for potential naming collisions with the newly generated types

### Composition Event Handlers Renamed

The names of Stencil's composition event handlers have been changed in order to
correct a casing issue which prevented handlers from being called when events
fired. The changes are as follows:

| previous name                | new name                     |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `onCompositionEnd`           | `onCompositionend`           |
| `onCompositionEndCapture`    | `onCompositionendCapture`    |
| `onCompositionStart`         | `onCompositionstart`         |
| `onCompositionStartCapture`  | `onCompositionstartCapture`  |
| `onCompositionUpdate`        | `onCompositionupdate`        |
| `onCompositionUpdateCapture` | `onCompositionupdateCapture` |

## Output Targets

### `dist-custom-elements` Output Target
#### Add `customElementsExportBehavior` to Control Export Behavior
`customElementsExportBehavior` is a new configuration option for the output target.
It allows users to configure the export behavior of components that are compiled using the output target.
By default, this output target will behave exactly as it did in Stencil v2.0.0.

This config option provides additional behaviors that will alter the default component export OR custom element definition behaviors
for this target. The desired behavior can be set via the following in a project's Stencil config:

```ts
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';
export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
    {
      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
      customElementsExportBehavior: 'default' | 'auto-define-custom-elements' | 'bundle' | 'single-export-module',
    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```

| Option                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------- |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `default`                     | No additional re-export or auto-definition behavior will be performed.<br><br>This value will be used if no explicit value is set in the config, or if a given value is not a valid option.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `auto-define-custom-elements` | A component and its children will be automatically defined with the `CustomElementRegistry` when the component's module is imported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `bundle`                      | A utility `defineCustomElements()` function is exported from the `index.js` file of the output directory. This function can be used to quickly define all Stencil components in a project on the custom elements registry.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `single-export-module`        | All component and custom element definition helper functions will be exported from the `index.js` file in the output directory (see [Defining Exported Custom Elements](#defining-exported-custom-elements) for more information on this file's purpose). This file can be used as the root module when distributing your component library, see [below](#distributing-custom-elements) for more details. |

#### Move `autoDefineCustomElements` Configuration
`autoDefineCustomElements` was a configuration option to define a component and its children automatically with the `CustomElementRegistry` when the component's module is imported.
This behavior has been merged into the [`customElementsExportBehavior` configuration field](#add-customelementsexportbehavior-to-control-export-behavior).
To continue to use this behavior, replace `autoDefineCustomElements` in your project's `stencil.config.ts` with the following:
```diff
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
    {
      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
-      autoDefineCustomElements: true,
+      customElementsExportBehavior: 'auto-define-custom-elements',
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```

### `dist-custom-elements-bundle` Output Target
The `dist-custom-elements-bundle` has been removed starting with Stencil v3.0.0, following the [RFC process](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/issues/3136).
Users of this output target should migrate to the `dist-custom-elements` output target.

By default, `dist-custom-elements` does not automatically define all a project's component's with the CustomElementsRegistry.
This allows for better treeshaking and smaller bundle sizes.

For teams that need to migrate quickly to `dist-custom-elements`, the following configuration should be close to a drop-in replacement for `dist-custom-elements-bundle`:
```diff
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
-    {
-      type: 'dist-custom-elements-bundle',
-      // additional configuration
-    },
+    {
+      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
+      customElementsExportBehavior: 'bundle'
+    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```
However, it does not necessarily improve treeshaking/bundle size.
For more information on configuring this output target, please see the [`dist-custom-elements` documentation](/docs/custom-elements)

## Legacy Angular Output Target
Prior to the creation of the [`@stencil/angular-output-target`](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil-ds-output-targets/blob/main/packages/angular-output-target/README.md), the `'angular'` output target was the original means of connecting a Stencil component to an Angular application.
This output target has been removed in favor of `@stencil/angular-output-target`.
Please migrate to `@stencil/angular-output-target` and remove the `'angular'` output target from your `stencil.config.ts` file.
Instructions for doing so can be found [in the Angular Framework Integration section](/docs/angular#setup) of this site.

## Stencil APIs
Stencil exposes Node APIs for programmatically invoking the compiler.
Most users do not use these APIs directly.
Unless your project calls these APIs, no action is required for this section.

### Flag Parsing, `parseFlags()`
Stencil exposes an API for parsing flags that it receives from the command line.
Previously, it accepted an optional `CompilerSystem` argument that was never properly used.
The flag has been removed as of Stencil v3.0.0.
To migrate, remove the argument from any calls to `parseFlags` imported from the Stencil CLI package.
```diff
import { parseFlags } from '@stencil/core/cli';
- parseFlags(flags, compilerSystem);
+ parseFlags(flags);
```

### Destroy Callback, `addDestroy()`, `removeDestroy()`
The Stencil `CompilerSystem` interface has a pair of methods, `addDestroy` and `removeDestroy` that were previously misspelled.
If your codebase explicitly calls these methods, they need to be updated.
Replace all instances of `addDestory` with `addDestroy` and all instances of `removeDestory` with `removeDestroy`
The functionality of these methods remains the same.

## End-to-End Testing
### Puppeteer v10+ Required
Versions of Puppeteer prior to Puppeteer version 10 are no longer supported.
In newer versions of Puppeteer, the library provides its own types, making `@types/puppeteer` no longer necessary.
Ensure that Puppeteer v10 or higher is installed, and that its typings are not:
```bash
$ npm install puppeteer
$ npm uninstall @types/puppeteer
```

## Need Help Upgrading?

Be sure to look at the Stencil [v3.0.0 Breaking Changes Guide](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/v3.0.0-dev/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#stencil-v300).

If you need help upgrading, please post a thread on the [Stencil Forum](https://forum.ionicframework.com/c/stencil/21).

Commit message:

feat(docs): removal of inlineDynamicImports to migration guide
This commit adds a section to the v3 migration guide for the removal of `inlineDynamicImports` from `dist-custom-elements`

src/docs/introduction/upgrading-to-stencil-three.md, after:

---
title: Upgrading to Stencil v3.0.0
description: Upgrading to Stencil v3.0.0
url: /docs/upgrading-to-stencil-3
contributors:
  - rwaskiewicz
---

# Upgrading to Stencil v3.0.0

> Stencil 3.0.0 is still in alpha. These instructions are for users looking to try an early version of the software

## Getting Started

It's recommended that your projects start their upgrade from Stencil v2.
Projects using Stencil v0 or Stencil v1 should upgrade to Stencil v2 before proceeding with this guide.
For breaking changes introduced in previous major versions of the library, see:
- [Stencil v2 Breaking Changes](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/main/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#stencil-two)
- [Stencil v1 Breaking Changes](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/main/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#stencil-one)

For projects that are on Stencil v2, install the latest version of Stencil v3:
```bash
npm install @stencil/core@v3-next
```

## Updating Your Code

### New Configuration Defaults
Starting with Stencil v3.0.0, the default configuration values have changed for a few properties.

#### SourceMaps
Sourcemaps are generated by default for all builds.
Previously, sourcemaps had to be explicitly enabled by setting the `sourceMap` flag to `true`.
To restore the old behavior, set the `sourceMap` flag to `false` in your project's `stencil.config.ts`:
```ts
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  sourceMap: false,
  // ...
};
```

#### `dist-custom-elements` Type Declarations
Type declaration files (`.d.ts` files) are now generated by default for the [`dist-custom-elements` output target](/docs/custom-elements).
If your project is using `dist-custom-elements` and you do not wish to generate type declarations, the old behavior can be achieved by setting `generateTypeDeclarations` to `false` in the `dist-custom-elements` output target in your project's `stencil.config.ts`:
```ts
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
    {
      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
      generateTypeDeclarations: false,
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```

### Deprecated `assetsDir` Removed from `@Component()` decorator
The `assetsDir` field was [deprecated in Stencil v2.0.0](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/main/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#componentassetsdir), but some backwards compatibility was retained with a warning message.
It has been fully removed in Stencil v3.0.0 in favor of `assetsDirs`.
To migrate from existing usages of `assetsDir`, update the property name and wrap its value in an array:
```diff
@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
- assetsDir: 'assets',
+ assetsDirs: ['assets'],
})
```
For more information on the `assetsDirs` field, please see the [Stencil Documentation on `assetsDirs`](/docs/assets#assetsdirs)

### Drop Node 12 Support
Stencil no longer supports Node 12.
Please upgrade local development machines, continuous integration pipelines, etc. to use Node v14 or higher.

### Strongly Typed Inputs
`onInput` and `onInputCapture` events have had their interface's updated to accept an argument of `InputEvent` over `Event`:
```diff
- onInput?: (event: Event) => void;
+ onInput?: (event: InputEvent) => void;
- onInputCapture?: (event: Event) => void;
+ onInputCapture?: (event: InputEvent) => void;
```
`event` arguments to either callback should be updated to take this narrower typing into account

### Narrowed Typing for `autocapitalize` Attribute
The [`autocaptialize` attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/autocapitalize) has been narrowed from type `any` to type `string`.
This change brings Stencil into closer alignment with TypeScript's typings for the attribute.
No explicit changes are needed, unless a project was passing non-strings to the attribute.

### Custom Types for Props and Events are now Exported from `components.d.ts`

Custom types for props and custom events are now re-exported from a project's `components.d.ts` file.

For the following Stencil component
```tsx
import { Component, Event, EventEmitter, Prop, h } from '@stencil/core';

export type NameType = string;
export type Todo = Event;

@Component({
  tag: 'my-component',
  styleUrl: 'my-component.css',
  shadow: true,
})
export class MyComponent {
  @Prop() first: NameType;

  @Event() todoCompleted: EventEmitter<Todo>

  render() {
    return <div>Hello, World! I'm {this.first}</div>;
  }
}
```

The following data will now be included automatically in `components.d.ts`:
```diff
  import { HTMLStencilElement, JSXBase } from "@stencil/core/internal";
  import { NameType, Todo } from "./components/my-component/my-component";
+ export { NameType, Todo } from "./components/my-component/my-component";
  export namespace Components {
      interface MyComponent {
        "first": NameType;
      }
  }
  export interface MyComponentCustomEvent<T> extends CustomEvent<T> {
      detail: T;
      target: HTMLMyComponentElement;
  }
  declare global {
      interface HTMLMyComponentElement extends Components.MyComponent, HTMLStencilElement {
  }
```
This allows those types to be easily accessed from the root of the type distribution:
```ts
import { NameType, Todo } from '@my-lib/types';
```

When using `dist-custom-elements`, these types can now be accessed from the custom element output:
```ts
import { NameType, Todo } from '@my-custom-elements-output';
```

This _may_ clash with any manually created types in existing Stencil projects.
Projects that manually create type definitions from `components.d.ts` will either need to:
- remove the manually created type (if the types generated in `components.d.ts` suffice)
- update their type creation logic to account for potential naming collisions with the newly generated types

### Composition Event Handlers Renamed

The names of Stencil's composition event handlers have been changed in order to
correct a casing issue which prevented handlers from being called when events
fired. The changes are as follows:

| previous name                | new name                     |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `onCompositionEnd`           | `onCompositionend`           |
| `onCompositionEndCapture`    | `onCompositionendCapture`    |
| `onCompositionStart`         | `onCompositionstart`         |
| `onCompositionStartCapture`  | `onCompositionstartCapture`  |
| `onCompositionUpdate`        | `onCompositionupdate`        |
| `onCompositionUpdateCapture` | `onCompositionupdateCapture` |

## Output Targets

### `dist-custom-elements` Output Target
#### Add `customElementsExportBehavior` to Control Export Behavior
`customElementsExportBehavior` is a new configuration option for the output target.
It allows users to configure the export behavior of components that are compiled using the output target.
By default, this output target will behave exactly as it did in Stencil v2.0.0.

This config option provides additional behaviors that will alter the default component export OR custom element definition behaviors
for this target. The desired behavior can be set via the following in a project's Stencil config:

```ts
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';
export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
    {
      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
      customElementsExportBehavior: 'default' | 'auto-define-custom-elements' | 'bundle' | 'single-export-module',
    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```

| Option                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------- |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `default`                     | No additional re-export or auto-definition behavior will be performed.<br><br>This value will be used if no explicit value is set in the config, or if a given value is not a valid option.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `auto-define-custom-elements` | A component and its children will be automatically defined with the `CustomElementRegistry` when the component's module is imported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `bundle`                      | A utility `defineCustomElements()` function is exported from the `index.js` file of the output directory. This function can be used to quickly define all Stencil components in a project on the custom elements registry.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `single-export-module`        | All component and custom element definition helper functions will be exported from the `index.js` file in the output directory (see [Defining Exported Custom Elements](#defining-exported-custom-elements) for more information on this file's purpose). This file can be used as the root module when distributing your component library, see [below](#distributing-custom-elements) for more details. |

#### Move `autoDefineCustomElements` Configuration
`autoDefineCustomElements` was a configuration option to define a component and its children automatically with the `CustomElementRegistry` when the component's module is imported.
This behavior has been merged into the [`customElementsExportBehavior` configuration field](#add-customelementsexportbehavior-to-control-export-behavior).
To continue to use this behavior, replace `autoDefineCustomElements` in your project's `stencil.config.ts` with the following:
```diff
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
    {
      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
-      autoDefineCustomElements: true,
+      customElementsExportBehavior: 'auto-define-custom-elements',
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```

#### Remove `inlineDynamicImports` Configuration
The `inlineDynamicImports` configuration option on `dist-custom-elements` has been removed. Previously, this option would throw an error at build
time during the Rollup bundling process if the build contained multiple "inputs" (components). Based on the use cases for Stencil components libraries
and how this Rollup option behaves, there is no reason to keep this option around.

### `dist-custom-elements-bundle` Output Target
The `dist-custom-elements-bundle` has been removed starting with Stencil v3.0.0, following the [RFC process](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/issues/3136).
Users of this output target should migrate to the `dist-custom-elements` output target.

By default, `dist-custom-elements` does not automatically define all a project's component's with the CustomElementsRegistry.
This allows for better treeshaking and smaller bundle sizes.

For teams that need to migrate quickly to `dist-custom-elements`, the following configuration should be close to a drop-in replacement for `dist-custom-elements-bundle`:
```diff
// stencil.config.ts
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
-    {
-      type: 'dist-custom-elements-bundle',
-      // additional configuration
-    },
+    {
+      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
+      customElementsExportBehavior: 'bundle'
+    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```
However, it does not necessarily improve treeshaking/bundle size.
For more information on configuring this output target, please see the [`dist-custom-elements` documentation](/docs/custom-elements)

## Legacy Angular Output Target
Prior to the creation of the [`@stencil/angular-output-target`](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil-ds-output-targets/blob/main/packages/angular-output-target/README.md), the `'angular'` output target was the original means of connecting a Stencil component to an Angular application.
This output target has been removed in favor of `@stencil/angular-output-target`.
Please migrate to `@stencil/angular-output-target` and remove the `'angular'` output target from your `stencil.config.ts` file.
Instructions for doing so can be found [in the Angular Framework Integration section](/docs/angular#setup) of this site.

## Stencil APIs
Stencil exposes Node APIs for programmatically invoking the compiler.
Most users do not use these APIs directly.
Unless your project calls these APIs, no action is required for this section.

### Flag Parsing, `parseFlags()`
Stencil exposes an API for parsing flags that it receives from the command line.
Previously, it accepted an optional `CompilerSystem` argument that was never properly used.
The flag has been removed as of Stencil v3.0.0.
To migrate, remove the argument from any calls to `parseFlags` imported from the Stencil CLI package.
```diff
import { parseFlags } from '@stencil/core/cli';
- parseFlags(flags, compilerSystem);
+ parseFlags(flags);
```

### Destroy Callback, `addDestroy()`, `removeDestroy()`
The Stencil `CompilerSystem` interface has a pair of methods, `addDestroy` and `removeDestroy` that were previously misspelled.
If your codebase explicitly calls these methods, they need to be updated.
Replace all instances of `addDestory` with `addDestroy` and all instances of `removeDestory` with `removeDestroy`
The functionality of these methods remains the same.

## End-to-End Testing
### Puppeteer v10+ Required
Versions of Puppeteer prior to Puppeteer version 10 are no longer supported.
In newer versions of Puppeteer, the library provides its own types, making `@types/puppeteer` no longer necessary.
Ensure that Puppeteer v10 or higher is installed, and that its typings are not:
```bash
$ npm install puppeteer
$ npm uninstall @types/puppeteer
```

## Need Help Upgrading?

Be sure to look at the Stencil [v3.0.0 Breaking Changes Guide](https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil/blob/v3.0.0-dev/BREAKING_CHANGES.md#stencil-v300).

If you need help upgrading, please post a thread on the [Stencil Forum](https://forum.ionicframework.com/c/stencil/21).
