---
title: Content Security Policy Nonces
description: How to leverage CSP nonces in Stencil projects.
contributors:
  - tanner-reits
---

[Content Security Policies (CSPs)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) can help protect an application from Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
attacks by adding a security layer to help prevent unauthorized code from running in the browser.

In the world of Stencil applications, if your app leverages a restrictive CSP (i.e. anything other than 'unsafe-inline') and components without a Shadow
DOM, you'll likely run into an error in the browser console stating the certain styles or scripts were not able to run because they violate the
effective CSP.

To resolve this issue, we've implemented support for using [CSP nonces](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/nonce) in
many of the Stencil output targets.

> NOTE: CSPs and some CSP patterns are not supported by legacy browsers such as Internet Explorer. For a more detailed list, please see the [CSP browser
> compatibility table](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP#browser_compatibility).

## How to Use a Nonce

The actual generation of the nonce value and enforcement of the correct CSP are not the responsibility of Stencil. Instead, the server the application
is hosted on will need to generate the nonce value for each page view, construct the CSP, and then correctly handle passing the generated nonce to
Stencil based on which output target is being consumed.

There are many resources available that walk through setting up a CSP and using the nonce behavior.
[This](https://towardsdatascience.com/content-security-policy-how-to-create-an-iron-clad-nonce-based-csp3-policy-with-webpack-and-nginx-ce5a4605db90)
article walks through the process using Nginx and Webpack. Obviously, these resources don't account for the Stencil specifics, but we'll try to make
those parts clear as we move on.

Per the [MDN Guide on nonces](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/nonce#generating_values), a nonce should be "a random base64-encoded string of at least 128 bits of data from a cryptographically secure random number generator".

### Output Targets

Using nonces may differ slightly between output targets, so please be sure to use the correct pattern based on the context in which your
Stencil components are consumed.

#### Dist

Consuming a `nonce` in the `dist` output target is easy using the provided `setNonce` helper function. This function is exported from the index
file of the output target's designated output directory.

This function simply accepts the `nonce` string value that you want set for every `style` and `script` tag.

This is an example of consuming the `dist` output in an Angular app's entrypoint:

```ts
// main.ts

import { defineCustomElements, setNonce } from 'my-lib/loader';

// Will set the `nonce` attribute for all scripts/style tags
// i.e will run styleTag.setAttribute('nonce', 'r4nd0m')
// Obviously, you should use the nonce generated by your server
setNonce('r4nd0m');

// Generic Angular bootstrapping
platformBrowserDynamic()
  .bootstrapModule(AppModule)
  .catch(err => console.log(err));

defineCustomElements();
```

#### Custom Elements

Consuming a `nonce` in the `dist-custom-elements` output target is easy using the provided `setNonce` helper function. This function is exported
from the index file of the output target's designated output directory.

This function simply accepts the `nonce` string value that you want set for every `style` and `script` tag.

This is an example of consuming the `dist-custom-elements` output in an Angular app's entrypoint:

```ts
// main.ts

import { defineCustomElements, setNonce } from 'my-lib/dist/components';
// We'll assume we have `autoDefineCustomElements` enabled
import 'my-lib/dist/components/my-component';

// Will set the `nonce` attribute for all scripts/style tags
// i.e will run styleTag.setAttribute('nonce', 'r4nd0m')
// Obviously, you should use the nonce generated by your server
setNonce('r4nd0m');

// Generic Angular bootstrapping
platformBrowserDynamic()
  .bootstrapModule(AppModule)
  .catch(err => console.log(err));
```

#### WWW

Unfortunately, setting `nonce` attributes gets a bit trickier when it comes to [SSR and SSG](docs/static-site-generation). As a `nonce` needs
to be unique per page view, we cannot define/set the nonce at build time. So, this responsibility now falls on the
[hydrate app](docs/hydrate-app)'s execution of runtime code.

##### SSR

Since there is not an easy way (or any way) of exposing and executing helper functions to manipulate the outcome of the runtime code, Stencil
has fallback behavior for pulling the `nonce` off of the window object.

So, for SSR, your app can simply set the desired `nonce` value on `window.nonce` at bootstrap. Yes, this does involve some manual configuration
for the code served by your server.

This isn't a security risk because, for an attacker to execute a script to pull the nonce from the window object, they would have needed to know the
nonce _ahead_ of the script's execution.

##### SSG

We cannot support CSP nonce with SSG. Because all of the code is generated during [pre-rendering](docs/static-site-generation#how-static-site-generation-and-prerendering-works), we don't generate the `style` or `script` tags at runtime.
If an application wants to leverage nonces in SSG, they can build a mechanism to scrape the pre-rendered code and apply the attribute server-side before
it is served to the client.
