versioned_docs/version-v4.13.0/testing/01-overview.md, before:

---
title: Testing
sidebar_label: Overview
description: Testing overview.
slug: /testing-overview
---

# Testing

In order to ensure that your Stencil components work the way you expect, Stencil provides testing support out of the
box. Stencil offers both unit testing and end-to-end testing capabilities.

## Unit Testing vs. End-to-end Testing

Testing within Stencil is broken up into two distinct types: Unit tests and End-to-end (e2e) tests.

There are several philosophies on how testing should be done, and how to differentiate what should be considered a unit 
test versus an end-to-end test. Stencil takes an opinionated stance so developers have a description of each to better
choose when to use each type of testing:

**Unit tests** focus on testing a component's methods in isolation. For example, when a method is given the argument
`X`, it should return `Y`.

**End-to-end tests** focus on how the components are rendered in the DOM and how the individual components work
together. For example, when `my-component` has the `X` attribute, the child component then renders the text `Y`, and
expects to receive the event `Z`.

## Library Support

Stencil currently supports the following tools for testing components:

- [Stencil Test Runner](./stencil-testrunner/01-overview.md): a built-in test runner based on Jest for unit and end-to-end testing with Puppeteer to run within an actual browser in order to provide more realistic results.
- [WebdriverIO](./webdriverio/01-overview.md):  a browser and mobile automation test framework for Node.js that allows you to run component and end-to-end tests across all browsers.

:::info

We are actively working to support a wider range of testing tools, including Playwright. Stay tuned for updates!

:::

Commit message:

docs(testing): add initial playwright adapter docs (#1378)
* docs(testing): add initial playwright adapter docs

* initial PR feedback

* more PR feedback

* experimental warning, link to writing tests page in overview

* move async dispose step, add config copy step

* add file info/structure

* fix typo

Co-authored-by: Alice Pote <alice.writes.wrongs@gmail.com>

* backfill v4.13 docs

---------

Co-authored-by: Alice Pote <alice.writes.wrongs@gmail.com>

versioned_docs/version-v4.13.0/testing/01-overview.md, after:

---
title: Testing
sidebar_label: Overview
description: Testing overview.
slug: /testing-overview
---

# Testing

In order to ensure that your Stencil components work the way you expect, Stencil provides testing support out of the
box. Stencil offers both unit testing and end-to-end testing capabilities.

## Unit Testing vs. End-to-end Testing

Testing within Stencil is broken up into two distinct types: Unit tests and End-to-end (e2e) tests.

There are several philosophies on how testing should be done, and how to differentiate what should be considered a unit
test versus an end-to-end test. Stencil takes an opinionated stance so developers have a description of each to better
choose when to use each type of testing:

**Unit tests** focus on testing a component's methods in isolation. For example, when a method is given the argument
`X`, it should return `Y`.

**End-to-end tests** focus on how the components are rendered in the DOM and how the individual components work
together. For example, when `my-component` has the `X` attribute, the child component then renders the text `Y`, and
expects to receive the event `Z`.

## Library Support

Stencil currently supports the following tools for testing components:

- [Stencil Test Runner](./stencil-testrunner/01-overview.md): a built-in test runner based on Jest for unit and end-to-end testing with Puppeteer to run within an actual browser in order to provide more realistic results.
- [WebdriverIO](./webdriverio/01-overview.md): a browser and mobile automation test framework for Node.js that allows you to run component and end-to-end tests across all browsers.
- [Playwright](./playwright/01-overview.md): an automated end-to-end testing framework that can run across all major browsers

:::info

We are actively working to support a wider range of testing tools, including Playwright. Stay tuned for updates!

:::
