src/docs/config/dev-server.md, before:

---
title: Integrated Dev Server Config
description: Integrated Dev Server Config
url: /docs/dev-server
contributors:
  - adamdbradley
  - BDav24
  - feerglas
---

# Integrated Dev Server

Stencil comes with an integrated dev server in order to simplify development. By integrating the build process and the dev server, Stencil is able to drastically improve the development experience without requiring complicated build scripts and configuration. As app builds and re-builds take place, the compiler is able to communicate with the dev server, and vise versa.


## Hot Module Replacement

The compiler already provides a watch mode, but coupled with the dev server it's able to go one step farther by reloading only what has changed within the browser. Hot Module Replacement allows the app to keep its state within the browser, while switching out individual components with their updated logic after file saves.


## Style Replacement

Web components can come with their own css, can use shadow dom, and can have individual style tags. Traditionally, live-reload external css links usually does the trick, however, updating components with inline styles within shadow roots has been a challenge. With the integrated dev server, Stencil is able to dynamically update styles for all components, whether they're using shadow dom or not, without requiring a page refresh.


## Development Errors

When errors happen during development, such as printing an error for invalid syntax, Stencil will not only log the error and the source of the error in the console, but also overlay the app with the error so it's easier to read.


## Open In Editor

When a development error is shown and overlays the project within the browser, line numbers pointing to the source text are clickable,
which will open the source file directly in your IDE.


## Dev Server Config

| Property         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Default |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `address`        | IP address used by the dev server. The default is `0.0.0.0`, which points to all IPv4 addresses on the local machine, such as `localhost`. | `0.0.0.0` |
| `basePath`       | Base path to be used by the server. Defaults to the root pathname. | `/` |
| `initialLoadUrl` | The URL the dev server should first open to. | `/` |
| `logRequests`    | Every request to the server will be logged within the terminal. | `false` |
| `openBrowser`    | By default, when dev server is started the local dev URL is opened in your default browser. However, to prevent this URL to be opened change this value to `false`.  | `true`  |
| `reloadStrategy` | When files are watched and updated, by default the dev server will use `hmr` (Hot Module Replacement) to update the page without a full page refresh. To have the page do a full refresh use `pageReload`. To disable any reloading, use `null`. | `hmr` |
| `port`           | Sets the server's port. | `3333` |


## Example

```tsx
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  devServer: {
    reloadStrategy: 'pageReload',
    port: 4444
  }
};
```

Commit message:

add info about how to use https dev server

src/docs/config/dev-server.md, after:

---
title: Integrated Dev Server Config
description: Integrated Dev Server Config
url: /docs/dev-server
contributors:
  - adamdbradley
  - BDav24
  - feerglas
  - simonhaenisch
---

# Integrated Dev Server

Stencil comes with an integrated dev server in order to simplify development. By integrating the build process and the dev server, Stencil is able to drastically improve the development experience without requiring complicated build scripts and configuration. As app builds and re-builds take place, the compiler is able to communicate with the dev server, and vise versa.


## Hot Module Replacement

The compiler already provides a watch mode, but coupled with the dev server it's able to go one step farther by reloading only what has changed within the browser. Hot Module Replacement allows the app to keep its state within the browser, while switching out individual components with their updated logic after file saves.


## Style Replacement

Web components can come with their own css, can use shadow dom, and can have individual style tags. Traditionally, live-reload external css links usually does the trick, however, updating components with inline styles within shadow roots has been a challenge. With the integrated dev server, Stencil is able to dynamically update styles for all components, whether they're using shadow dom or not, without requiring a page refresh.


## Development Errors

When errors happen during development, such as printing an error for invalid syntax, Stencil will not only log the error and the source of the error in the console, but also overlay the app with the error so it's easier to read.


## Open In Editor

When a development error is shown and overlays the project within the browser, line numbers pointing to the source text are clickable,
which will open the source file directly in your IDE.


## Dev Server Config

| Property         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Default |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `address`        | IP address used by the dev server. The default is `0.0.0.0`, which points to all IPv4 addresses on the local machine, such as `localhost`. | `0.0.0.0` |
| `basePath`       | Base path to be used by the server. Defaults to the root pathname. | `/` |
| `https`          | By default the dev server runs over the http protocol. Set this to `true` to run the dev-server over https via an auto-generated self-signed SSL certificate. If you want to provide your own certificate, you can set this to an object `{ key, cert }` instead (see example below). | `false` |
| `initialLoadUrl` | The URL the dev server should first open to. | `/` |
| `logRequests`    | Every request to the server will be logged within the terminal. | `false` |
| `openBrowser`    | By default, when dev server is started the local dev URL is opened in your default browser. However, to prevent this URL to be opened change this value to `false`.  | `true`  |
| `reloadStrategy` | When files are watched and updated, by default the dev server will use `hmr` (Hot Module Replacement) to update the page without a full page refresh. To have the page do a full refresh use `pageReload`. To disable any reloading, use `null`. | `hmr` |
| `port`           | Sets the server's port. | `3333` |


## Example

```tsx
import fs from 'fs';
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  devServer: {
    reloadStrategy: 'pageReload',
    port: 4444,
    https: {
      key: fs.readFileSync('./key.pem', 'utf8'),
      cert: fs.readFileSync('./cert.pem', 'utf8')
    }
  }
};
```
